In this lecture, you'll learn about the comment attacks that hackers use and their attempts to compromise
your systems, you learned in the last lecture that if it is a targeted attack, then the hacker will
typically start off with doing reconnaissance of your organization, so will start their reconnaissance,
obtains information about the intended victim.
And in a targeted attack, as I said earlier, the attacker will typically start with completely unobtrusive
methods that even normal people would be doing.
It does not look like an attack at all, such as searching, who is information, phone directories
and job listings.
So if you use the WHO is database, that is just that database of information about people who are responsible
for Web sites.
So let's say that you're going to attack me.
Please don't.
Then you could look up the who is information for flat dot com and you would see that I am responsible
for not, you know, have some information about your intended victims, public web services, other
things you can do.
I look for corporate phone directories.
If the company has got a publicly listed corporate phone directly, then you can go in there, you can
find out the names of people that work for the organization, their phone numbers, maybe their job
rules and things like this.
This is going to be very useful information if you want to do social engineering, which we're going
to come to in a second.
Other things that you probably wouldn't have thought about, as well as things like job listings, for
example, if you advertise a job position and in there you see that you want a voice and video engineer
and they need to have skills in business school call manager.
Well, if an attacker sees that, they can be pretty sure that what you're using for your voice and
video system is a school call manager.
So if they're going to be attacking that, they already know what kind of system you're using so they
can look for vulnerabilities specific to that.
So with all this, you need to be very careful and be aware of the information that you're making publicly
available.
For example, by example, I just gave you a big job listings.
That's the kind of thing that most people would never think about at all.
But by doing that, you're actually giving out information which is valuable to attackers.
So after the attacker has done this very high level reconnaissance, which is not going to register
with any security tools at all, then proceed to do further.
Reconnaissance will dig deeper using tools such as ping sweeps the and Vulnerability Skyliners.
OK, so I mentioned social engineering a second ago.
Social engineering is the use of deception to manipulate individuals into divulging confidential or
personal information, and it typically involves nothing more technical than the use of a telephone
or email.
And the attacker will often pretend to be somebody else to trick the victim.
So an example of social engineering.
Let's see that during the reconnaissance, the attacker did find that your organization has got a public
phone directory and then from that they find out the name of the I.T. manager.
And if you're in a large organization they know of, no, everybody is going to know the I.T. manager
personally.
So maybe the phone up somebody inside the organization, again, they know who this person is.
We've got your phone number and our job at all.
The phone them up and they pretend to be the I.T. manager and then they try to trick this person into
changing their password to a particular password or something like that, or maybe giving out information
about the company, which, again, is going to be more valuable information for the attacker.
And they can escalate from their.
A very popular, fairly recently and common type of social engineering is phishing.
This is an attack where the attacker pretends to be from a reputable company to get individuals to reveal
personal information such as passwords and credit card numbers.
And victim is often directed to enter the details and the attackers Web site, which looks like reputable
companies, legitimate website.
The attacker has now got their username and password.
So if you've got an e-mail address, I'm sure you do, then I'm sure you're used to seeing these phishing
attacks.
You're used to seeing emails from Apple or somebody like that.
You get an email supposedly from Apple which says that there is an issue with your Apple account and
it's going to be locked out.
Or maybe it says it's from PayPal and it says your PayPal account is about to be locked out and never
will be a link.
You click on the link, it takes you to a Web site that looks just like Apple or PayPal website and
tries to trick you to your username and password in there.
So if, for example, your PayPal details are in there, the attacker has now got access to your PayPal
account and they can take any money out of their.
Next thing to talk about is data exfiltration, this is where data leaves an organization without or
authorization.
So this could be by a hacker who has compromised the system.
For example, if it was an attack by the hacker and they've got and this has happened several times
in recent years where an attacker has managed to compromise the systems of a financial institution which
have got a database of credit card details.
So if the hacker is able to get this information, they can now steal the credit card details of all
of our organizations customers.
They can then use this to try to do fraud with those credit card details.
Or another thing that they could do is they could blackmail the organization, telling them, pay me
a ransom or I'm going to let everybody know that I was able to steal all of your customers credit card
details.
It could also be by accident or maliciously by an internal staff member.
For example, a staff member sends an email which includes secret information.
They could do that just by accident because we don't know any better, or they could do it maliciously.
Another thing that could happen is a staff member could accidentally leave a USB stick on a bus, which
has got company sensitive information on there, which is no encrypted.
Next thing is the US denial of service.
This is an attack which prevents legitimate users from accessing an I.T. resource and it's typically
a brute force style of attack, which floods the target system with more traffic than it can handle.
So the target system gets more traffic than it can handle, can't take anymore.
And not just crashes with Target's system, but at least stops it from accepting any more incoming connections.
DOS attacks from a single source can be easily stopped by blocking traffic from that single source.
So an example of a denial of service attack, well known one is the TGP Swinford.
Before I get to that in the next slide, let me explain the normal mechanism that it takes advantage
of.
So the way the TGP works normally when everything is well is a user.
So you can see a user here, they connect to a server.
When they do that, their PC sends a sin message to the server.
The server will then send a Sinak box office, for instance, for synchronize the server, then sends
a synchronized acknowledgement back and then the originating system then sends that acknowledgement,
but then completes the teashop.
Three way handshake and a normal communication can occur after that with TCP traffic always starts with
that three way handshake to set out the TGP connection.
The TCP Swinford attack is a denial of service attack, which uses this mechanism to attack the target
server.
See here you can see we've got the attacker.
They send in the sin to initiate the connection.
The server then sends a signal back.
What would normally happen at that point is the source system here would then send another acknowledgment
to complete the three way handshake.
But with a TCP Synthroid attack, what the attacker does is they just don't complete the connection
by sending in the acknowledgement.
So it's a half open connection you've got to send from the attacker and in the Senate bot from a server
and then they don't send the act to complete it.
And the attacker will not just open up one half open connection.
They will open up so many half open connections, the exhausts, the resources on the target system,
and then it's not able to accept any new incoming connections to be doing this.
The attacker brings down that system.
They stop any other legitimate users from being able to open up a connection to that system.
OK, so as you saw earlier, if it's a single attacker, it's doing that from a single IP address,
it's very easy to stop the attack by just dropping all traffic coming in from that one source IP address.
But there is a more damaging form of the attack, which is Vidor's distributed denial of service with
a distributed denial of service attack.
It's the same type of attack, but it comes from multiple sources, not just a single source IP address.
To do this, the attacker builds and controls a botnet army of infected zombie hosts, which they can
control, and the botnet is built through malware such as worms and Trojan horses.
So, for example, about the Trojan horse I gave you before, let's say that you're a gaming fan.
You go into a website, it promises to give you the passwords for all of the latest games.
Sheardown movie you execute it then installs via TACKERS software onto your PC.
Your PC has now become a zombie RPG and it's possible for the attacker to control your PC and launch
denial of service attacks from there.
When the attacker gets a big enough botnet, a big enough army of zombie PCs that can launch very damaging
distributed denial of service attacks from their.
With the botnet, the infected horse can act out to the attackers command and control server, this
circumvents firewalls because the connection is initiated from the inside.
So I thought she is inside a firewall then even if the attacker gets the software on there, if the
attacker was going to initiate the connection to his own VPC, it wouldn't work because that would normally
be blocked by the firewall.
However, firewalls allow traffic from inside the network to go out of the network and enter return
traffic to come back in.
So what happens is you go and you download a Trojan horse, you inadvertently install the software on
your PC.
Your PC then connects out to the attackers command and control server.
Your firewall allows that traffic because it's going outbound and then the attacker connection traffic
back into you through the firewall.
The firewall will allow it because it's return to traffic and they can now control your PC and they
can launch denial of service attacks from their.
Distributed denial of service attacks are obviously more difficult to mitigate against because the attack
comes from multiple sources which could normally be expected to send legitimate traffic to with a plane,
the U.S. attack is coming from a single source.
You can easily see that it's attacking you and you can block traffic from our source.
But if traffic is coming from a huge botnet of thousands of zombie zombies, it can be hard to protect
against that.
There are techniques you can use for which will cover later on in the section.
Next kind of attack that we have is spoofing and spoofing is where an attacker fakes their identity.
Spoofing types include IP address spoofing, where the attacker spoofed their source IP address, pretending
to be somebody else.
Advanced spoofing, for example, are attacks which were covered earlier in the switch security section
and application spoofing, for example, a rogue DHP server so the attacker can put in a rule DHP server
in your organization.
It's not the legitimate DHP server, but the attacker is pretending like it is.
Next, reflection and amplification attacks, a deflection attack is a denial of service attack where
the attacker spoofs the victims source address the attacker sans traffic, supposedly from the victim,
which elicits a response from reflectors to, for example, if the intended victim has the IP address,
cannot handle it, handle attacking the attacker, sends traffic seeing that it is dot, dot, dot 10.
So it says that that is its source address.
It then sends out traffic in some destination hosts, which will send traffic back to the victim.
And if it does enough of this, then all out to turn traffic.
Going back to the victim can bring the victim via amplification, causes a large amount of response
traffic to the victim, which causes denial of service effect.
In mine, in the middle attacks, the attacker inserts themselves into the communication path between
legitimate hosts to when the attacker is able to do this man in the middle attack the traffic gottschall
pockets that are going between two legitimate who are passing through the attacker and it can then read
an option.
We modified the in those pockets are spoofing as a well known man in the middle attack we covered back
in this switch security section.
Password attacks.
If an attacker has connectivity to a login window so they can get to that login window, then they can
attempt to gain access to the system behind it.
Enumeration techniques attempt to discover usernames.
So most modern software will guard against this.
You've got all of the software on there.
Then it's possible that the attacker can use a tool which will be able to find out the usernames very
legitimate on that system and password cracking techniques, attempt to learn user passwords.
The different types of methods that are available to the attacker to crack passwords include just normal
guessing.
They can also use brute force on dictionary attacks.
So with gashing, a study was done fairly recently and it found out that a huge amount of people use
common passwords, for example, passwords using an art instead of an A or a password of let me in on
things like that.
People use them thinking, OK, this is your password.
But actually they're used all over the place.
Those are the first ones the attackers will get.
If the system does not have an easily guessed password on there, then the attacker can use tools which
can do brute force and dictionary attacks with a dictionary attack.
The tool goes through all the words in the dictionary to see if that is being used as a password and
with a brute force attack that is taking on a level which will take a bit longer for the attacker rather
than just using dictionary words, it will use combinations of words, will also do things like using
the symbol instead of an AI, etc., things like that, and an attempt to crack the password.
Buffer overflow attacks send malformed and or too much the to the target system.
So this is, again, where all of the software is more likely to be vulnerable.
This if software does not guard against malformed, they are coming in, then the attacker can do that
and then they can do that either as a denial of service attack where it crashes the target system or
worse case.
Sometimes it can actually compromised the system and give the attacker admin rights on that system.
And finally, we have pocket sniffers, if an attacker has compromised the target system or ViiV inserted
himself into the network path and are able to she pockets going to or from the system, then pocket
sniffers such as Wireshark can be used to read the scent and received pockets.
And any unencrypted sensitive information that is in there can then be learned by the attacker.
They can use this to damage the organization, for example, by blackmailing them with the sensitive
information they have, or if it includes security information, they can use that to escalate their
attack and get access to more sensitive systems.
OK, so that was the main types of attacks that hackers will use against you.
As we go through the rest of this section, we'll talk about the solutions that are available to you
to protect against them.